---
layout: post
title: 'New paper "SoK: Unified Blockchain Data Structure"'
img:  "/assets/img/blog/review-tools.png"
description: "We present our new paper, _SoK: Blockchain Unified Data Structure_, where we survey existing solutions on blockchain data unification, including theoretical developments and practical open-source or commercial tools. Based on theoretical developments in unifying UTxO and Account-based blockchain models, we propose a new unified abstract data model focused on granular token transfer data."
---


{{ page.description }}


<p><br/></p>

_Title_: SoK: Blockchain Unified Data Structure

_Authors_: Natkamon Tovanich, Madalina I. Sas, Christophe Lebrun, Munthitra Thadthapong, William J Knottenbelt, Arnaud Gaudinat, Marco Mattavelli 

_Journal_: Our paper was accepted to be presented at the IEEE  7th International Conference on Blockchain Computing and Applications (BCCA) and will be included in the IEEE BCCA 2025 proceedings.

_Abstract_:

Over the last 15 years, blockchain technologies have evolved into a heterogeneous ecosystem with numerous practical applications. The diversity of blockchain data models, ranging from UTxO-based to account-based systems and evolving towards smart contract platforms, has led to fragmentation in how blockchain data is stored, accessed, and analysed. This heterogeneity hinders interoperability, complicates cross-chain analytics, and limits reproducibility in blockchain research. In this paper, we present a comprehensive study of blockchain data unification, covering a wide range of academic and commercial approaches. We examine their underlying data structures and identify key limitations in existing solutions. Building on these insights, we propose a unified data model that abstracts and flattens token transfer data while capturing the semantics of both UTxO and account-based paradigms. We conclude by outlining future research directions to further validate and extend this model across diverse blockchain ecosystems.


<p><br/></p>

<p class="text-center" markdown="1">

**To learn more, read our paper [here](https://hal.science/hal-05185296v1/document){:target="_blank"}.**

</p>

